---
layout: post
title: "Digital Scholarship, Timelines, and Timemaps"
date: 2021-08-03
---
<div class="blurb">
	<p>Here are some activities we will do today to learn about digital scholarship.</p>
  <h2>Activity 1: History of IU Residence Halls</h2>
  <p>Most of you will be living in an IU residence hall in Fall 2021. A lot of them are named after people.</p>
  <p>Today we'll each do some tiny research projects about these people and the residence halls named after them.</p>
  <h3>Step 1</h3>
  <p>Pick a residence hall from this list. It doesn't have to be the one you'll live in:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>Collins</li>
    <li>Eigenmann</li>
    <li>Teter</li>
    <li>Wright</li>
    <li>Briscoe</li>
    <li>Foster</li>
    <li>McNutt</li>
    <li>Read</li>
    <li>Wells</li>
    <li>Willkie</li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Step 2</h3>
	<p>See which of these questions you can answer in 10 minutes of searching:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>Who is this residence hall's namesake?</li>
    <li>When was the residence hall dedicated?</li>
    <li>What are their birth and death dates?</li>
    <li>Where were they born?</li>
  </ul>
<h3>Step 3</h3>
<p>Can you find four significant events in this person's/dorm's history and the location where they occurred?</p>
<hr/>
<h2>Activity 2: Timeline JS</h2>
<p>TimelineJS is a free, web-based timeline tool that uses data in Google Sheets to build interactive timelines.</p>
<p>First, we'll look at my <a href="https://nhomenda.github.io/blog/2018/08/06/timeline-example">example timeline</a> to see what it can do.</p>
<p><a href="https://nhomenda.github.io/blog/2018/08/06/timeline-js">Next, we'll follow my instructions to build our own timelines</a>.</p>
<hr/>
<h2>Activity 3: TimeMapper</h2>
<p>Similar to Timeline JS, TimeMapper uses Google Sheets to publish interactive time maps, which situate individual events on a map.</p>
	<p>To get started, let's look at my <a href="https://nhomenda.github.io/blog/2018/08/06/timemapper">example</a>.</p>
	<p><a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ngHCjZJAp_yNeeIEpE3Y4L6xAwDORDy9EQNeCj7JXWc/edit#gid=0">Here's my spreadsheet data behind it</a>.</p>
	<p><a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1LlYBnfhvD3ZUXMGZ8e52UwYp-xn_NeWmaGBx7VBz5V8/edit#gid=0">Here's the spreadsheet template</a>.</p>
	<p>My example map uses a map I published to my account and embedded on this site. You can get a free account by logging in with your Twitter account. You can also publish anonymously, as long as your Google Sheet is published to the web.</p>
		<p><a href="http://timemapper.okfnlabs.org/anon/v4dxy1-herman-b-wells-history">Here's the same map as above, published anonymously</a>.</p>
</div><!-- /.blurb -->
